## Dec 7, 2022 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Guy Bedford, Robin Brown, Lann Martin, Luke Wagner, Peter Huene, Radu Matei, Roman Volosatovs
| Note Taker | Radu Matei

* Project management update
    * Project board: https://github.com/orgs/bytecodealliance/projects/7
    * Peter: we now have a project board that we organized around stories, with tasks required to complete that story. I haven't updated all stories but will try to complete them this week. I'd like to go into this meeting each week and share where we are in the implementation. Please update the board and assign yourself when working on something.
    * Peter: we talked about informal dates when we want to complete things by, so I created an initial milestone that encapsulates the intention to have a basic prototype of `cargo component` by the end of the month. Not necessarily publishing that to the registry, but getting `cargo component` to pull things from the registry, generate bindings — by early January (while keeping in mind that getting things done in December because vacations might be a bit challenging)
    * Roman: do we want to spend some time prioritizing?
    * Peter: I think we can, some of the tasks are not really granular. If people want to do that, please do so.
    * Peter: the 'Story' column contains all the top-level user stories, and links the tasks that are relevant. We can drag it in the `Done` column when we have implemented all the tasks.
    * Diving into the `Authoring a component in Rust` story.
    * Lann: there is a practical prioritization, re: Robin trying to do a demo for WasmDay.
    * Luke: there is also a Wasm.io conference, wondering in Robin would be interested in presenting there as well.
    * Peter: the initial focus here would be a high-level description and demo of the work, and we can talk about the forward-looking ideas.
    * Roman: the server-side API tasks would be the highest priority here I assume? Are we fully set on what we are implementing, what API are we implementing?
    * Peter: I think it still needs some work.
    * Roman: should we create tasks for that?
    * Peter: that makes sense to me, feel free to update that.
    * Luke: is there a task around standing up a live Bytecode Alliance instance?
    * Peter: there is one, yes. There are no details about it yet though.
    * Robin: for a demo prototype, the cost associated for this should be pretty cheap.
    * Luke: are you thinking at presenting at WasmDay, or Wasm.io?
    * Robin: ideally, both. The design of the Warg structures and validation should hopefully be done by the end of the month. There are some questions around what it takes to set up everything else re: clients talking to servers, but I'm hoping to have something by Wasm.io/WasmDay. I want to avoid being the bottleneck on this by the end of the month, and have a usable demo by the conferences.
    * Peter: early January there is a deadline to have something done in `cargo component` so we can start demoing this. I think I'll set one or two milestones up to WasmDay/Wasm.io, so we can porioritize the relevant issues for that. I feel comfortable doing that.
    * Lann: having a usable read-only (externally) would be a good initial milestone.
    * Peter: I punted on the production design tasks, we will need solutions for storage, database, even for dogfooding purposes. There are some design decisions to be made here for our particular instance.
    * Robin: Lann mentioned previously that S3 has an upload with an expected digest, that is intriguing and could be a useful feature. For databases, we will host ours on top of SingleStore - hopefully the design will be pluggable.
    * Peter: do we want to spend more time in this meeting going through the tasks, or do we want people to go thorugh and add them?
    * Roman: I filed a task for the fetch API, not sure what is still outstanding. What are the action items to get us over the line?
    * Lann: it depends what you mean by `query/fetch`. `fetch` might be first before `query`. We need to finalize the data structures.
    * Roman: are we using protobuf for all API definitions?
    * Robin: there is an initial HTTP option, but there is protobuf in payloads
    * Lann: I've been trying to decide what my opinion is here re: protobuf vs. agnostic. It has implications for the implementations.
    * Robin: this is an open question we need to decide.
    * Lann: https://hackmd.io/@lann/rk1r8alfj

* Simplified (MVP) Record Publishing API: https://hackmd.io/@lann/rk1r8alfj
    * Luke: would validation include validating the component binary?
    * Robin: I think this is a policy question, at least you want to make sure there metadata and it contains actual components.
    * Lann: as currently written, it is implicitly synchronous, but could be made async in the future. Any thoughts about the "bring your own storage" is acceptable?
    * Robin: even if that is true, the registry could copy it. I hadn't thought the URLs were places you were telling the client where to send the data.
    * Lann: the very first thing that could work is you upload your artifact to say GitHub, and the registry can fetch from there.
    * Peter: it would be nice if `cargo component` could upload the artifact directly to the registry.
    * Robin: it would be nice if you didn't have to know about any of that, and the client would be able to push the bytes.
    * Lann: this gets into the question of who pays for the storage.
    * Luke: for dogfooding, it would be nice for `cargo component` if the prototype registry would have some storage, and we would aggresively rate limit?
    * Radu: I would be careful to distinguish between the demo we want to show and the real use case we want to support.
    * Roman: it sounds like `fetch` and `publish` would be the most important.
    * Peter: for certain use cases where you have semantic versions, you do need querying.
    * Robin: you could answer a lot of those locally. using `fetch`, it's easy to get all the versions available.
    * Peter: right. It would be nice if the server gave me the latest version of a given package.
    * Robin: I think we need to enumerate all versions and where they live for a given package. You can recursiely depsolve.
    * Lann: do we need depsolve to solve across the dependencies of dependencies? As long as you are looking at a snapshot, you will naturally get "the latest" for two solutions to that constraint.
    * Robin: the registry could still provide an index.
    * Lann: flattening the dependency tree.
    * Robin: right.
    * Luke: not sure if we can get away with always being a tree. If A depends on B, and both import a shared WASI interface that defines a resource type, and A and B need to trade resources, they need to share the same instance.
    * Lann: does this need to be solved before the regsitry is involved?
    * Luke: if I write a semver query, I import a resource type — that needs to be resolved in the same way. Maybe the host can solve that, but it might be virtualized. This would be a hard requirement.
    * Robin: if this is a constraint, wouldn't the component graph tell us they need to be the same instance?
    * Luke: it's the depsolver.
    * Robin: I thought there was more explicitness here. When I am constructing this topology, my component shape would require two of the same depdendency. Is it up to me if those are identical?
    * Luke: who "me" refers to is important here.
    * <note: this is difficult to capture in real time.>
    * Robin: 1) what is the default assumption. 2) this information about whether two things must be shared sounds very component model specific — where does that logic belong, is it a registry operation? 3) we need a way of querying the structure of the module to udnerstand the behavior needed, how do we find that information?
    * Luke: for 3) you need to analyze imports and exports, which are intended to make this explicit. This is the job of a depsolve tool. The input is a collection of components, the output is a lockfile that can be used to form a locked component. THis depsolve step could be client side, but it could also be done serverside. CLient side might be the better initial choice.
    * Lann: is it selecting a version of an interface, or is it synthesising a new one? We are never using subtyping to solve these constraints?
    * Luke: this is only working in terms of versions.
    * Peter: one thing I'm struggling with is the transition from the development time to producing an artifact that we want to run. When we build locally with something like `cargo component` we pull everything down to get type definitions and create instances. The import info links those with artifacts from the registry. Those can be interfaces in the registry. When we talk about depsolve, how do we go from the abstract to concrete implementations of a component we want to fill that abstract import, and what that looks like.
    * <note: did not capture the end of this conversation
