## Nov 30, 2022 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Bailey Hayes, Guy Bedford, Robin Brown, Lann Martin, Luke Wagner, Mossaka, Peter Huene, Radu Matei, Roman Volosatovs, Taylor Thomas
| Note Taker | Robin Brown

* Desire for additional project management within the meetings
    * Peter: We were casually talking about frustration around progress on the implementation of the registry. Comes down to roadmapping our milestones and guaging progress towards reference implementation for registry, client, and tooling. We discussed a dedicated PM role, but that that's probably not right for this. We just need some more planning and tracking beyond random github issues.
    * Robin: Github has milestones and projects (kanban style board) features that we can use.
    * Roman: We can turn the user stories into issues and determine what's in the MVP. If we have some kind of board, we can prioritize what's going on and determine what's blocking. It seemed like there's been a lack of direction.
    * Peter: That all sounds good and I'm happy to do some of that work looking over the user stories and creating issues for them and putting them on a board.
    * Peter: I think this will cover our needs and we should use this meeting as a status update point so that people are working on what they need to be and the status is clearly conveyed.
* [Guy Bedford] - Hosting a wasm-tools registry component + logging interface
    * Guy Bedford: I added this and the motivation came from the JS and wasm-tools direction. There's a desire to re-use the wasm interfaces for wasm-tools. It'd be nice to have a registry for that. It can be a very simple use case to drive/test registry work. There's questions around how the logging and interfaces get represented/stored but it's pretty simple because it acts as one package with no dependencies.
    * Robin: So to summarize, are you suggesting we use wasm-tools as a way to dog-food the registry project?
    * Guy: Yes and we should think about ecosystem delivery requirements when you want to rebuild/deploy the component when the source changes. We probably don't want to encourage people to use NPM for this, but it is a current example.
    * Guy: Where can I go to see the state of things?
    * Robin: For now, there isn't a good issue/issues I can point you to, but that's something we're gonna work on shortly.
    * Peter: I'll put everything in the bytecodealliance/registry repo and that'll be the place to look.
    * Guy: Can we set up domains to host a private registry for testing?
    * Peter: When we have a reference implementation we can figure some of this out.
    * Luke: It'll be interesting to see how quickly we can get a test use case going where we have a registry with contents and seeing how that will get integrated into other ecosystems. What if we put up a thing that nobody should use in production but that we're going to experiment with and modify in place with example contents created from bytecodealliance source code. This could get the cycle going.
    * Guy: There's a lot of open questions about how to handle these things and this could help us start to iterate on them. There's a few ways of doing things with multi-registry ecosystems and having some way of hooking into the registry or using the registry directly... these are discussions we should be having about integration points and how to solve integration problems.
    * Peter: I agree we need to stand up a staging environment but we need to figure out who's providing the resources for that. I think we will probably make it bytecodealliance only for publishing even if we warn people that it's in development, for whatever reason people start depending on stuff. If we want to publish our components and worlds and things to test things, that would be a very good thing.
    * Bailey: I almost expected the bytecode alliance registry to only be bytecode alliance only things. Since we're offering mirroring and federation we could reduce our operational costs. Someone was asking about supporting wasi and wasi cloud interfaces in the wasmCloud Community Call. The moment we start offering something like this people will start depending on this to help use WASI things but that is its own risk.
    * Guy: If we really want it down, we could have authenticated downloads.
    * Peter: I don't think we need to go that far, I think it's just going to be WASI stuff, interface definitions, and worlds. 
* [Lann] Component file splitting
    * Lann: This grew out of a conversation we had 2 weeks ago about how to bundle static data and assets in a component or packages more generally. That conversation developed on Zulip into this design that involves splitting out WASM binary file sections into other files in a very clear way that can be reconstructed into the exact original bytes. I wrote a [prototype](https://github.com/lann/wasm-splice/) of that that's not too exciting but I'll post in case anyone is interested that does the fundamental step of splitting out, currently, custom sections out into other files. We've also talked about splitting out passive data sections into separate files which would allow us to bundle scripts or static files. Quite a bit of discussion has happened there and the tie-in into the registry calls for a content hash for a package that is the primary security link between a published package and the content associated with it. There's been some discussion of how to do that if you split out a component into multiple files and I've come up with three broad approaches:
        * Use the original single file as the canonical representation that gets hashed
        * Split the file and use the root file to represent all of the content which works because it includes the hashes of the non-root files
        * Change the protocol to all for multiple content digests so you can publish both
    * Lann: The biggest trade-off in the second two options is that every registry client has to understand the splitting. I'd like feedback on the cost of that and making it mandatory for implementations (at leaset for if you only publish the root file). I have a Hackmd that has some notes for different options, if anyone has any thoughts about the complexity/feature tradeoff here. The benefits of being able to include multiple files is still pretty abstract.
    * Lann: Is being able to split out files a requirement or something we want to enable later?
    * Taylor (Blunt): Why do we need this now? I want to get the registry and then get to this. This feels like something we can push down the line. What we need at this point to make it successful. We need something that lets me query for a component that meets interface X. Everything else to me is bells and whistles. That's the component work we're doing and everyone else is doing. We don't need to tear apart files and custom sections. We just need to push up a file and pull it back down.
    * Lann: The immediate tie-in is associating package metadata with package contents.
    * Radu: Between package metadata and the obvious advantage of de-duplicating data that's an obvious feature to have and that's something that will give us a huge advanatage for client and server implementations.
    * Taylor: I'm missing something, why did we need for metadata? Everything we need is going in custom sections or the warg manifest, but I'm not sure why we need to split it out. What is the metadata here and why do we need to split it out?
    * (Lann's internet disconnects)
    * Radu: Being able to deduplicate common components and modules will be hugely useful.
    * (Lann re-joins)
    * Taylor: I don't think we're going to get a massively huge registry in the next 6 months so we can get going and then figure out the splitting. (Re-iterates above question)
    * Lann: For more context, the discussion in Zulip has been around how we can split up this root file and use it as the content digest and we can use a more incremental approach. We can start with single file and forget the split up approach.
    * Lann & Robin: This is more about not making a decision that will make this harder to do later, as opposed to solving everything right now
    * Taylor: We represent the main people that are going to use this, so I think we can be pretty comfortable breaking things. I don't think we need to have too much fear about this from the get-go. I think we need to just get the initial registry endpoints/api together first.
    * Radu: We know this is a problem we will have to solve but we can solve it now or later
    * Taylor: I don't think we'll run into that problem soon because components are smaller than containers
    * Radu: In the past, we've talked about self-contained components and exploded components and converting between them losslessly. Even if we don't do this in version one, I want there to be an answer to how you convert between them.
* [Radu] - 
    * Radu: In reviewing the user stories, it's a bit unclear to me in the current prototype how we would tackle static assets. Separately from the question of how to handle static assets.
    * Peter: The way I've been thinking of it, when we have a component that wants to make use of static content it uses a file system. Whether that is bundled with it as a wrapper component or not. We'll have tooling that can take files and put them in passive data segments so they're available in a component as a file system static assets component that has these passive data segments. When it comes time to bundle your application with its static assets, it owuld be just like bundling any two components.
    * Bailey: But you won't have to statically link it, it's fine if the data is separately loaded asynchronously. Like in the case of a massive ML model.
    * Luke: As soon as you want it to be async, what interface am I importing that gives me an async functions that let me fetch it. I think that might be outside the traditional static assets story and more like something that's separate. I guess you could imagine...
    * Bailey: The use case I'm thinking of is a component with a separately loaded ML model file.
    * Luke: Currently, when you're using an async interface it implies host. Any instruction can synchronously read from a data segment and cause a read that would require it to be suspended while the data is fetched. Independently there's been this idea about turning a data segment into an async stream. I should be able to essentially stream forward this and I could also just read my own stream and this would give the host a good way of telling you it's not ready and interleaving with other operations. Exploding lets us dedup/separate files, stream data segments might solve the other part but keep it as a simple data segment.
    * Lann: You can also imagine, further complicating things, like streaming something from the registry and start running it before you have every bit.
    * Luke: Ya, this stream could let you start running and start running the component before the data segment is there. If I can create a stream at any point, I can also make a range request and be very efficient
    * Bailey: Should this also be an issue?
    * Luke: This hasn't been discussed in the meetings yet but it can be made into an issue
    * Guy: Would you need to mark the segment as not being ready?
    * Luke: If you're listening on a stream, it won't need anything special
    * Guy: What if another part reads the segment synchronously?
    * Luke: We can also statically detect that that's not being done
