## Dec 14, 2022 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Bailey Hayes, Justin Cappos, Robin Brown, Lann Martin, Luke Wagner, Mossaka, Peter Huene, Brian Hardock, Johnnie Birch
| Note Taker | 

* [Robin] SecurityCon update
    * Talk by Robin and Nathaniel on Registry w/ focus on security
    * We'll need to have a written up threat model for this, not to use in presentation but to have for anyone that asks
    
* [Lann] Component model import URLs update
    * Luke: Currently just URLs; might be time to add version numbers.
    * Peter: Implementation is starting to see URLs; not yet used
    * Luke: Talking to Alex about how to get URLs from WIT to components
    * Bailey: Someone on my team has started looking at how version numbers might look in the component model. Volunteering to start a design issue/PR. Curious about whether versions resolution should be like a tree [or a DAG]?
    * Luke: That decision belongs in the depsolve tool; versions in the components themselves are just about making nicer error messages. Dependency resolution is a separate topic, up to the implementation. [The component model allows for many different linking strategies.]
    * Luke: Default linking strategy should be to share as much as you can while still meeting constraints.
    
* [Peter] describing component types in registry-aware authoring tooling
    * Peter: Conversation in cargo-component about how to describe components. We're looking at a flat list of dependencies 

* Introduce Justin Cappos

* [Bailey] Record meetings?
