# Mar 13 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
2. Announcements
    1. None
3. Other agenda items
    1. Eric's Wasi.dev revamp PR: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasi.dev/pull/21

## Attendees

* Eric Gregory, Cosmonic
* David Bryant, Bytecode Alliance
* Kate Goldenring, Fermyon

## Notes

Discussion at the March 13th SIG-Documentation meeting focused on the status of the WASI book (revamp of WASI.dev).

* **WASI.dev:** We discussed the [draft PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasi.dev/pull/21), starting by returning to the decision to use MDBook over Docusaurus. MDbook was originally chosen to be consistent with the component book; however, it does not support tabs and Docusaurus allows for more customization of the UI. Decision to add another PR to switch to Docusaurus. Discussed whether now is a good time to discuss the next iteration of the content of the book. Decided that should wait for a later meeting when more people can attend and contribute to that discussion.

* **Promoting documentation:** We now have 2 volumes of curated documentation withing the Bytecode Alliance ecosystem. How should we advertise them? David offered to think about it and take a look at where it could be referenced fromt he Bytecode Alliance site.
  
* **Next meeting:** Most people are at WASM I/O this week. KubeCon is next week. Should we still meet? There may be feedback that we get over this week at Wasm I/O as people discuss the ecosystem in person. Just in case there is feedback we could address let's meet next week, and it may be short like this one.

## Action Items

* [ ] Eric: PR change to use Docusaurus into WASI.dev
* [ ] David: Check if there is a place we can/should call out our two volumes of documentation (WASI and component books) from Bytecode Alliance site
