# Mar 27 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. None
1. Other agenda items
    1. None

## Attendees

* Eric Gregory, Cosmonic
* David Bryant, Bytecode Alliance
* Kate Goldenring, Fermyon
* Danny Macovei, JAF Labs
* Sohan Maheshwar, Fermyon
* Calvin Prewitt, JAF Labs

## Notes

* **WASI Documentation Update:**
Bailey now reviewing WASI.dev PR. Once merged, we can start talking about the next iteration

* **WA.dev Status**
Improvement needed on documentation on WA.dev. Danny and Calvin have plans to add docs on how to use the registry (WA.dev) on the component model docs and wa.dev but still have some feature work that want to get done before they point people there. approx 2 weeks of dev work. Calvin is enabling user management on wa.dev this week to grant WASI people access to the namespace. Also, adding support for sharing private packages. Calvin mentioned that there is not a place to put Markdown on WA.dev currently -- right now it just renders WIT docs. He surveyed whether people in the SIG think MD or even rendering MDBooks on WA.dev would be helpful. Conceptually thinking of it being like GitHub. No clear feedback -- just happy to not need to copy a bunch of WIT directories now.

* **Feedback on CM Documentation from Conference Attendees**:
Feedback on Component Model (CM) documentation indicates the need for reorganization. Suggestions include incorporating feedback scoring and linking relevant talks, like Ryan Levick's, into the documentation.

* **Improving Discoverability of Books**:
The BA site talks about its projects but doesn't say anything about docs, such as CM book and WASI.dev. If a journalist for NYT is trying to write an article about Wasm, where would we point them? What could we do to point people to this documentation? David asked whether discoverability of documentation in scope for ths group? Ideas proposed to add the books to the prohects page or a new "Learn" tab. No final decision made.

* **Promoting Resources**:
Sohan asked about the current state of social media for the BA. The BA has a twitter @bytecodeallies, but it is rarely used and mainly refers to what member orgs do than the BA docs. In the future, it could be used to tweet informative content such as Ryan Levick's talk.

* **Adjustment of Meeting Frequency**:
Consensus is reached to move meetings to every other week, with the next meeting scheduled for April 10th. A new ICS will be sent out.

## Action Items

* [ ] Kate send out new ICS with meeting occurrence changed to every other week
