# June 4 SIG-Community Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

- David Bryant
- Divya Mohan
- Justin
- Karen Chu
- Leon Nunes

## Notes

- [David] How do we record?\
[Karen] Do we want to manually record/automatically record?\
[David] For Leon’s benefit, we encourage all SIGs to record their meeting & upload to Youtube.\
[Leon] Other communities, people announce and start the meeting\
[Karen/David] Can put that as a standing agenda item.\
[Karen] If anyone has any thoughts around this, please bring it up in the next meeting


- [David] What do we want to do with the outreach?\
A lot of our outreach is tailored around amplifying existing content; not thought about it from the community/project perspective. We would welcome more content on the website rooted in the aforementioned perspective.\
There’s an opportunity here & if we could use any of the existing mechanisms, as a group, to help put the word out there, we could find a way to do that.\
[Karen] Prompt at the start of the meeting to revisit brainstorming ideas? Google sheet of ideas?\
[David] Some of this discussion could happen over the Zulip channel.


- [Karen] How should we ask people to execute on things? Is that within scope?\
[David] Wouldn’t want to stifle people’s thinking by asking people who suggest topics, to write the content. Having a backlog of topics and gathering them in one place is currently priority.

- [Karen] Social media channels?? Any gaps that need to be filled? Youtube, Twitter, Eventbrite.\
[David] Blogpost & Website, but they are announcement-centric. Most of the conversations seem to happen on Zulip.\
[David] Current social media strategy is reactive as opposed to proactive.\
[David] Opportunity to do more, if there are any more tools we want to include happy to chat

- [Karen] Broadcast communication between SIGs, how is important info conveyed b/w SIGs currently?\
[David] Meetings repo on GitHub with meeting minutes & presentations.\
[David] If broader audience is desired, efforts are rallied around blogpost. Not an editorial calendar model.\
[Karen] May not need a content calendar model yet.\
[Divya] Streamline the process of how SIGs find us & how we get information from SIGs.\
[David] Us as in Bytecode Allies or us as in SIG Community.\
[Divya] Both, since this is a chicken and egg problem. We need to focus on this since the SIG might be the first touchpoint for a lot of folks in the community, however this might not be as high a priority for us right now as compared to some of the others and we might want to tackle it eventually.

- [Leon, on chat] Can we look at what the TAG- WASM group is doing?
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d6PvdCuKbSdcuXG2M9fBSDQPTPfHYA0PPDTM2plbH3I/edit#heading=h.50zziy3oe1in
Or are the goals a bit different?
And do we limit ourselves to the projects in bytecodealliance?
https://bytecodealliance.org/#projects-of-the-alliance \
[David] Not limited to the projects listed above; those are just the hosted projects. 

- [Leon] Are we talking about amplification existing articles or are we thinking of creating new content?\
[David] Personal opinion on what we should focus on - what do we think best serves the needs of our community? Our content should answer that question. Map from there to relate to our existing projects & events. \ 
[David] Open question for us to seek answers to.\
[Karen] Would it help if we have a conversation of what we don’t want to include?\
[David] Examples?\
[Karen] Member company product is a no-no; project within BA would be okay.\
[Divya] Would it make sense to come up with guidelines around this?\
[David] +1

- [Karen] Official mediums, how do we feel about amplifying SIG meetings. That content, IMO, is low hanging fruit to talk about during outreach\
[David] SIG Community focused on orchestrating calendars\
[Karen] Our outreach could facilitate the amplification what each of the SIGs are doing along with the SIG activities + content focused on education. Larger question though is whether we need to be a mechanism for marketing? or amplification & education?\
[Divya] Can we have a charter?\
[David] Having a charter would be helpful alongside picking up reasonable goals to achieve by the end of the year. \ 
[Karen] Could we start with a google doc?\
[Divya] +1 could definitely start up a Google doc\
[David] For comparison, HackMD is used in some other SIGs as a mode of collaboration.

- [David] Reg. what TAG Wasm is doing, some of the SIGs here do the same thing, just in a GitHub repo

- [David] Any homework or agenda items to mull about for the next meeting? Charter?\
[Divya] Do we wanna also tackle guidelines? Personally, would prioritize charter since it is a north star.\
[Karen] +1 to charter\
[Justin] Internal/External\
[Karen] more clarification\
[Justin] Related to the earlier discussion around content we don’t include. \ 
[David] Overall scope for SIG Community?\
[Karen] Could be low hanging fruit to amplify existing work for the BA + existing SIGs\
[David] Do you think it is practical for us to be shortlisting a bunch of needs that the community has?\
[Karen] Yeah\
[David] We don’t have a central perspective about a lot of the activities we are doing currently. Coming up with that would be helpful. We could do any number of things but should be in a particular direction.\
[Karen] Any work done is good work. Can start small with a brainstorm and see if it helps us figure out our north star.\
[David] +1 to that.\
[Karen] Any higher level channel we can start the brainstorming process on since SIG Community is sparsely populated. \ 
[David] Announcement on #general to call people’s attention to SIG Community.\
[Justin] Mission statements ? - " Amplify Wasm-Sig* work both internally between SIGs and externally to people who haven't discovered Wasm" ??\
[Karen] Hesitant to only agree to SIG work because there’s so much more than SIG work.\
[David] Broader external & facilitated internal\
[Justin] Have been hanging around in wasm community since 2018; different projects hitting different areas of compute that maps to another area. If we can facilitate mindsharing bw such initiatives, it’d help us build better relationships & better products.

- [David] Mission statement, charter, brainstorming, articulating boundaries = all good items to takeaway\
[David]  Make more people aware of SIG Community\
[Karen] need examples of how we can serve community, happy to post on #general about what we can help with\

## Action Items

* [ ] Karen to socialize on the General stream regarding brainstorming ideas
* [x] Divya/David to put a standing item on the agenda template for the next meeting regarding meeting recording.
