## Feb 7, 2024 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Daniel Macovei, Peter Huene, Chris Dickinson, Luke Wagner
| Note Taker | Chris Dickinson

Updates:
- Peter - PR to update deps and filing an issue for Log State rollback not correct;
- Danny - stoked about the work peter just mentioned; I have plans to leverage it for some of the docsgen stuff that's going on

Agenda:
- Calvin - release version bump
    - we haven't done a version release since the second one in october 2023.
    - there's code in `main` that would definitely be nice to release
    - we have some pending things that peter is about to push through, & danny is doing some work on the CLI
    - what's in main:
        - changes to the server and api protocol to enable federation
            - not all of that logic exists in the cli client yet
            - cli not broken by this, but the server is more capable
            - danny has started work on enabling federation in the cli
                - other servers can handle a warg-registry subject header – you can talk
                  "through" another registry, like a proxy
    - what's the urgency on the version bump, peter?
        - [peter] no urgency; I can pin cargo-component ci to a sha for now, which will get it passing
        - [calvin] i'm not opposed at all to doing a release
        - [peter] no requirements either way
        - [calvin] one change that needs to fast follow for cargo component
            - there was a package id naming change
            - easy fix, but worth noting!
            - [danny] forgot to mention: since wasm-tools has been updated, the fixes that
              were needed to depsolve were added to depsolve branch; lann did a review a long
              time ago. I think everything lann mentioned is done, but he's also on an
              offsite
            - [calvin] preview registry that runs on fly.io that lann set up; everyone thinks
              we should kill that. if we do a release, the only consumer of this stuff is
              cargo-component
            - [danny] peter, as you've been doing your work, have you been working against fly.io?
            - [peter] no, local in-memory
            - [calvin]: the stuff in the main should probably be 0.3.0, not 0.2.x, since it adds some significant stuff around federation
                - include the version bump on the deps as well
                - we can do some follow-on patch releases for improving cli functionality
                - does that feel like a good answer? [general nodding]
- Calvin - OCI support
    - added to discussion thread [on github](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/discussions/237#discussioncomment-8385187): do we want to include oci support?
    - lann has added a "read-only, does not do publish" way of interfaces with oci
    - kind of a warg-lite (oci+warg+local file system or something); way of just reading components
    - do we want to expand the scope of the warg-cli and include publish?
    - there's some questions around depsolve and bundling/unbundling, where that would live
        - there's incomplete agreement around whether warg-loader should be a cli or a library
    - does it make sense to add oci "pull and publish" to the current warg tooling (in addition to warg support)
        - the ability to talk to both protocols first-class
    - [peter] i'm all for doing it that way; haven't looked at lann's client contract that abstracts the oci stuff away
        - right now the cargo component implementation does log validation
        - if we put that in warg-client, there will be some distinction on the cargo-component side to talk to the package log & resolve versions a little differently
    - [calvin] the info in a warg package log is a series of releases tied to digests
        - we can get basically that same info from OCI (minus yanks)
    - [peter] cargo-component says: give us the package log for the snapshot – then we query that
        - with oci we probably have to do direct lookups, minus semver
    - [calvin] we'd leverage having that local cache infra, so you'd be able to resolve things in that way, but we'd filter for valid semver oci tags so you could apply the semver query
        - there's a way to add oci functionality into the warg stuff you're consuming for cargo-component that (Ill have to double check) it doesn't matter which protocol you're talking to
    - [peter] i'm on board with that; right now cargo-component doesn't abstract away the data store though
        - it's disruptive [to cargo-component] but I'm okay with doing it
    - [calvin] i assume what we're after with full OCI support is to access both warg and OCI – to work with dependencies that are stored on different backing stores (OCI and warg)
        - I think it's possible to do that
        - [peter] it's worth exploring; if a proper abstraction is implemented, I don't mind a somewhat-invasive change to cargo-component to use that abstraction
    - [calvin] i wasn't planning on getting full agreement today, we're missing some key people
        - wanted to get people's thoughts
        - we'll talk more about it next week when lann and robin are around
- Danny - work to update the CLI to leverage the federation work that's been released serverside
    - started a branch that, similar to how there's a registry store and content storage for the warg-cli, adding a namespace-mapping storage
        - anytime it interacts with the endpoints, checks the namespace against the mapping store
        - currently interacting directly with the registry the namespace maps to, but i suppose i should probably interact with the "home" server using the subject headers
        - should check on reference impl for imported namespaces
        - i'm about to dive pretty deep into this!
    - [calvin] it'll be fun to use this stuff!
