## May 1, 2024 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Danny Macovei, Lann Martin, Robin Brown
| Note Taker | 

Updates:
- [Calvin] Branched off of Danny's PR and reworking it;
- [Calvin] CNCF Wasm WG is moving forward with [OCI artifact](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bZLjDpcG22PruvSUxGH-DNL906GEV0fYIbHQH7eNzqs/edit#heading=h.viatyeiazr3p)
- \[Lann] Created (empty) https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-pkg-tools

Agenda:
- \[Lann] should we (propose) expanding scope of this SIG to "packaging"
- \[Lann] wasm-pkg-tools UX discussion
- Discussing renaming the SIG and expanding the scope for packaging and recruiting other interested parties
