## Apr 24, 2024 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Danny Macovei, Robin Brown, Lann Martin
| Note Taker | 

Updates:
- [Danny] PR updates
- [Calvin] Going to work on the lowercase namespace PR for [Issue 245](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/issues/245)

Agenda:
- [Danny] Discuss PR
- [Calvin] For `warg publish init`, should we consider having `warg publish` handle `Init` record without requiring a separate step? There was some [confusion (GH Issue)](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/cargo-component/issues/277)
