## May 17, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Robin Brown, Kristopher Woullet, Timmy Silesmo
| Note Taker | 

* Updates:
    * Peter: Put up PR to make the client and server match what's been proposed in OpenAPI. It solves some problems like paged fetches and preventing arbitrary uploads.
* [Robin] - Metadata Discussion
    * a
    * Lann: The two major use cases are about de-duplicating data for storage and transmitting (I'm mainly interested in OCI) for runtime modules (e.g. a Python interpreter) and memory segments mapped into memory representing files (or some other representation). In other words, deduplicating large static assets. This attempts to address these problems by recursively splitting components into normalized content-addressed forms that give a deterministic top-level hash that validates anything. This lets you (but doesn't require you) to split out sections you don't care about but still validate the root hash.
    * Lann: Streaming data segments into browsers becomes easier operationally if you treat them as separate files. You could stream the component that imports it and start execution/initialization before the model starts streaming.
    * Lann: Another way to approach this question is "what would it look like to start without this and add it later?". Without having thought about it that hard recently, it doesn't seem that bad. It would require a forward-incompatible change to clients unless...
    * Lann: How would we migrate from one to the other? is equally important as how much do we want this?
    * Calvin: I think the storage dedup for content storage and avoiding clients downloading/publishing more data was important to Brian/Lann?
    * Lann: It is 100% storage/transmission optimization... or they're at least the justification for it even if it provides other features.
    * Calvin: Do you need to support the use case of verifying stuff individually instead of re-assembling it and verifying that way?
    * Lann: you can simplify things if you re-assemble fully but it cuts out use cases like partial download.
    * Luke: If data sections were exportable, there's extra design needed to share these separately. If we had splitting, we might split the code into two core modules that see one changing and the other not so that you could do finer grain deduplication.
* Action Items:
    * Calvin: Create GitHub discussion for Registry Namespacing
