## May 10, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Danny Macovei, Kristopher Wuollett, Lukas Sandholm Duberg, Peter Huene, Timmy Silesmo
| Note Taker | 

* Updates
    * Peter: Working on OpenAPI spec and changing the client and server implementation to look more like how the spec works; will react to feedback to the spec as-needed.
    * Kris: Follow up PR to the container PR to add health check endpoints
    * Danny: Pushed code to validate operator logs, but more work is needed
* [Calvin] - Registry alias namespaces (cont.)
    * Calvin: We were talking last week about Registries namespaces and how those are stored / understood by the registry server and client.
    * ...
* [Robin] - Package metadata (e.g. website, repository, authors)
    * ...
* [Calvin] - Wasm Split Use Cases & Requirements
    * Calvin: What are the tradeoffs and use cases for wasm-split if you split things into more components and use imports instead of split?
    * Static Files (there is no convenient factoring), Wasm Modules (ad-hoc deduplication), Minimizing Data movement in small releases
    * Luke: Static files map to data segments but there isn't a way to export/import them in core Wasm
    * Luke: Joel mentioned that it'd be neat to explode out a component, modify things, and then re-build the component. When you want to be able to add-remove files, you need an abstraction to represent a directory.
* Action Items
    * Calvin: Create GitHub discussion for Registry Namespacing
    * Robin: Create GitHub discussion for Metadata Format/Encoding & Common Metadata Fields
    * Calvin: Reach out to OCI proposal discussion group.
