## Jun 21, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Peter Huene,Timmy Silesmo, Calvin Prewitt, Danny Macovei, Luke Wagner |
| Note Taker | Peter Huene |

* Updates:
    * Peter: Helping out with...
    * Calvin: Set up drop-in daily meetings on the Registry GitHub. These are informal daily meetings where we can discuss registry work, hopefully to increase the cadence of the work; the Monday through Wednesday meetings are at 8 AM PDT, and the Thursday and Friday meetings are at 1 PM PDT.
    * Calvin: also working on another data store implementation for an in-memory database using DuckDB. It should give us another possible option for production scenarios and for using it for replication. Also looking into parquet file format for replication use as well.
    * Danny: working on upload URL PR for letting the server tell the client where to upload.
    * Peter: (goes on long informational rant on the record processing as it exists and how we want it to work with Danny's PR).
    * Peter: Let's check in on other PRs. Calvin has a PR for updating documentation that we should review.
    * Calvin: The PR updates the documentation and fixes missing links to code of conduct.
    * Peter: I'll try to review.
    * Calvin: Thoughts on the re-initialization logic of the server.
    * Peter + Everyone: discussion on extracting the transparency service out of the server, so that we can have multiple API services running (scale horizontally).
    * Calvin: Investigation into DuckDB may lead towards a persistence representation of the transparency service data, which will help with both restart of the transparency service, but also with the proof endpoints which will likely be read-heavy.
* Action Items:
    * ...
