## Oct 18, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Lann Martin, Kyle Brown, Daniel Macovei, Chris Dickinson, Luke Wagner
| Note Taker | Chris Dickinson

Updates:
  - [Calvin] Hoping to merge one last [PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/pull/216) before Friday's release v0.2
      - ..
      - Getting opinions
      - [Lann]: meta update: there have been some discussions on github
      - [Kyle]: from last week, there's discussion on monitors for federation
      - [Calvin]: pinged Luke & Chris about the discussion thread

Agenda:
* [Calvin] [PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/pull/216) up for review:
    * `GET /v1/content/{digest}` endpoint instead of `GET /v1/package/{logId}/record/{recordId}` for getting content source download URLs;
        * Current API is not ideal, since records can have multiple releases which provides more download links than clients likely want. Also, when Wasm naked imports are implemented, this new endpoint could more cleanly be extended to provide the dependency URLs for each digest.
    * Upload HTTP URLs can now specific the method and headers, so that can use POST or PUT and possibly Authorization or other headers; In the future, it would be helpful to add multipart upload support for large files as a new variant type;
    * Download HTTP URLs can specify whether the Range header is supported to download pieces of large files in parallel; Optional size field is provided to hint at the expected file size; (Although client doesn't yet take advantage of this functionality.)
    * Added warg reset command to reset local registry state (clearing package logs etc);
    * Added warg clear command to clear local cache of downloaded content;
    * Also, there's a fix so that the client CLI verifies the TimestampedCheckpoint signature when updating checkpoints. I'm pretty sure it was not verifying the signature before.

- [Calvin] Federation proposal on [GH Discussion](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/discussions/215)
- [Calvin] Are the following features welcome additions?
    * Oauth authentication for private registries;
    * CLI configuration to call an authenticated signing service;

Minutes:

- [Kyle]: Liked the changes, esp the content-sources; you can hint + have it suggest others
    - agree w/lann keeping the http-anonymous type simple; if we want an option later with headers; that can be a separate case. keep this one bare bones
- [Lann]: I think luke would appreciate us trying to keep the registry as forward-looking browser-compatible as possible
- [kyle]: keeping the default content-sorucing system something you can use throug the fetch api
- [calvin]: when you have a url for downloading the content; debating adding headers to add w/the GET request; discussion went in the way of "let's not do that because some of those headers would require a preflight CORS request; you can accomplish this with a signed url"
    - dropped that part of the PR
    - added a hint of the filesize + flag that the url can accept a `Range` header
        - wanted logic in the client if the size > certain amount, switch to doing chunks
        - those two things are enough for the client to make that decision
        - [lann]: but the client doesn't _have_ to use these headers
    - on the upload urls: added the ability to provide a method+headers
    - [lann]: on upload, i think that's fine because we don't expect the breadth of types of clients; 1 codebase in the medium term & others later
    - [calvin]: this doesn't preclude doing a preflight for CORS later; I thought headers would be helpful under certain scenarios. It is useful for uploading things; esp. the `Authorization` header, though I could be sold on dropping that too
    - [lann]: we might just need to think carefully about what a registry could trick a client into doing with that. nothing comes immediately to mind
    - [calvin]: would be passing through w/request
    - [kyle]: might be possible to mess with `cache-control`
        - possible to add fixed, enumerable set of headers that are allowed by the server?
        - start with a subset
    - [calvin]: do we care about setting a `content-type`, if we were thinking about something other than `application/wasm`
    - [kyle/lann]: that should be fine
    - [kyle]: `authorization` /`content-type` to start with
    - [calvin]: will make that change
        - any problems with specifying method as string? we could do POST before, most blob stores do PUT
        - [kyle]: that's fine
        - [lann]: might restrict to `POST`/`PUT`
        - [kyle]: `patch`, too?
        - [lann]: well, it _shouldn't_ be `patch`, you'd need a range...
    - [calvin]: the other breaking change; the get package record endpoint is used for two things
        - after publish: client is polling for status changes for the record just published
            - progressing from sourcing to processing to publishing|rejected
        - the other use case: when something is published, you're getting the dl links for all of the releases in a record
            - ...proposing separating these out
            - creating new endpoint based on content-digest rather than record for getting download links
            - helps us transition to a clean way of dealing with naked imports – of a digest that has imports to other digests
            - could be extended on that endpoint in a nice way
    - [kyle]: that sounds good – this means you have a way of asking about those digests; the other point you brought up in that PR which I think is reasonable; granulairty of record is very coarse, it could be 0, 1, releases, maybe more; I'm in favor
    - [calvin]: other non-breaking changes
        - `warg cli` reset local registry state; clearing out local logs. so we can fix our local cache issues; clears the default registry by default but can specify others using `--registry` or `--all`
        - content clear: this clears the content downloaded; this gives a user-friendly way of doing a reset
        - [kyle]: naming: should it be `warg cache clear` vs `reset`
        - [lann]: does anyone have any feelings about these changes?
        - [kyle]: we need to talk more about the concept of a default registry. depending on the dir you're working on, you might want different defaults – a `pyenv`-style config file, loaded from parent dirs?
            - we might want to move away from the nebulous global registry
            - this might change how some of these commands work
    - [calvin]: good segue into next thing in the agenda
    - [lann]: tangential question first: are we stablizing the warg cli tool on friday?
        - I assume _not_; the experience we want to be stable for wasi developers is the `cargo component` experience
        - [kyle]: it's a protocol thing; client cli args are out of scope for that guarantee
        - [calvin]: free to make changes to the cli, so long as it talks the same protocol
        - [kyle]: we're not going to break client->server relationships, but user->cli interface is not locked
            - folks are probably going to use cargo-component and peter's WIT tool
            - there's some work in the WASI leadup to get folks using peter's WIT tool
    - [calvin]: next agenda item: talk through the github discussion:
        - and monitors too
        - related and ongoing
        - quick outline
            - breaking things out into a couple features
            - two use cases:
                1. publishing registry packages that import packages from other packages
                2. creating registry mirrors (or even a `JOIN` of multiple registries)
            - kyle came up with an elegant suggestion: keeping our warg API the same and adding an http header that specifies the registry you're talking about
                - the header value is the domain name of the registry you're talking about
                - the request would be handled _as if_ the other registry was handling it
                - if a registry supports that proxying feature, it will respond as a read-through cache ([kyle] or as if it has the information the other registry possesses)
                    - NB: this can't be a pure HTTP cache
                    - [kyle]: if I want to ask BCA about wasi, I set the `subject` header to `wasi` and send it to BCA. Later if I want to verify that a (proxied) checkpoint is valid, I can ask `wasi` about it directly
                - [calvin]: how to know which packages live in which registries to set that appropriately
                    - we want the client ot have ultimate say on how it does things
                    - want ability to set up mapping (using lock file or something else)
                        - "these packages resolve to these registries"
                        - client can talk directly to other registries OR go through proxy
                        - same mechanism to configure
                    - the _server_ needs to know the mappings as well in order to validate packages that are published to it that depend on other registry's packages
                        - a server need to say "these are my namespace mappings"
                        - "the namespace mapping feature"
                    - by default, packages would be resolved in the context of the registry it was published to
                        - a registry that is importing a package from reg A that is published to another registry B; that package has imports in B (or C, or D)
                            - you want to resolve that in that context
                            - you also want to override that and have it resolve in the context of _your_ registry or _your_ client
                                - "aliasing registry namespaces" feature
                        - [kyle]: you have _your_ version of wasi, w/security patches, that follows another registry, but patches
                            - so you can resolve a package against _your_ patched `wasi`
                    - [calvin]: changes on the protocol level:
                        - there's a new header, the server needs to respond correctly
                            - [kyle]: a naïve version is to put a proxy in front
                            - [lann]: semantically, this doesn't have anything to do with federation; they're connected by how we're implementing it, but this definition might confuse people
                            - [kyle]: the job is to answer "as if" you're the other registry; will disagree on this point
                            - [lann]: ability to link objects that are authoritatively controlled by different regsitries is federation, proxying is not
                            - [kyle]: proxy + monitoring gets you to an interesting version of federation
                            - proxying is the fastest way you can implement it
                    - [calvin]: current thinking is naming the header `warg-registry`
                        - cli change: lock file that you can commit to a repo
                        - new endpoint on the server to get its mappings
                        - the client may by default want to get that mapping and use it as a starting point
                            - [kyle]: an `init` command to download mappings
                            - [calvin]: may not want mappings all in one go, may want them on-demand
                                - e.g., a platform that's federating with a TON of other registries
                                - [kyle]: you may not want to, but you'll need it pretty early – what if a transitive dep has a federated dep
                                - [lann]: i think apart from perf considerations; we're talking about a feature that is closely related to supply chain security. we need to be very careful about the UX of accepting mappings from a registry that changes dep resolution
                                    - [kyle]: this is why I think dumping it to a file is a good idea
                                - [cd]: how update
                                - [lann]: handwavily: through something called a "proposal", the ux of this will take a lot of thought. you would update the same way – "here are my old proposals, here are my new proposals, would you like to accept them?"
                                - [kyle]: the client is not required to follow the server's mappings
                                - [lann]: might be a scenario where we frame it as a push – if a new dep introduces new mappings
                                - [luke]: thought of a design criteria: there's a registry I'm publishing to; I should be able to sit a new registry in front of that one and do some local overrides of stuff. When I stand up the registry, when I've injected my registry, everything still works.
                                - [kyle]: there's a home reg and then mappings
                                - [cd]: ask about publishing against patched wasi
                                    - [kyle]: that should just work
                                - [lann]: this is a tricky design space; there's a fundamental tension between wanting the intent of the publisher to remain the same, while allowing surgical overrides (as a dev process, or org process)
                                    - it's still fuzzy to me; i don't see how it all pops into focus
                                - [luke]: that tension pops up – you can see this in the improt map spec – you can say "in this scope", I would like these bare words to resolve differently.
                                    - the registry is kind of like a scope
                                    - when i override wasi, does it globally override, or does this other registry kind of "close over" its deps [cd, def check me on this!]
                                - [lann]: default resolution starts with the origin registry. any adjustment comes from the client – anything that the server accepts from a client
                                    - [luke]: kind of pushes it through the registries
                                - [luke]: this sounds intuitively good
                                    - instead of the word "alias" – `npm` calls it `link` – a patch, redirect, overrides
                                - [kyle]: kind of borrowing alias from component; each registry is acting as a component [cd check me]
                                    - [luke]: it's not quite the same – i don't think components have a thing like this – this feature is a little more powerful. components don't allow this sort of scenario [cd: through aliasing]
                                    - [kyle]: link feels a little wrong
                                    - [luke]: "override" sounds good
                        - [calvin]: CTA: would love to get movement on this, get a first implementation. maybe we don't do aliasing/overrides yet, just the subj header and add on
                            - focusing on the discussion thread
                            - circle back on this next meeting
                            - need agreeement on approach before putting add'l work there
                        - [...]: kyle dropped due to phone battery dying (while charging! whew!)
- [calvin]: monitor api discussion: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/discussions/214
- [calvin]: started another github discussion about the CLI - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/discussions/217
    - extend vs create another cli
- [calvin]: private registry authentication: should that be in the warg cli; key signing service potentially
- [lann]: talked about this in the past, it's more plausible recently to start impl this as wasm plugins
    - wasi is stablizing
    - [kyle]: import syntax stabilization?
        - [lann]: waiting on wasmtime impl
        - [luke]: trevor and alex are actively working on this this week; both the wit change and the different import metadata into the string
    - [kyle]: for these plugins, are you talking about authn?
    - [lann]: think about git; most of git's authn are implemented as "helpers" which are binaries with a particular arg parsing & output convention
        - we want to do this but not this way: maybe as components?
        - we want two plugins: authn helper and signing helper
        - [kyle]: is authentication just http in a trench coat?
        - [calvin]: is the thinking that we should start with plugins?
        - [lann]: not the easiest way to solve these problems, but it might be the most beneficial to the ecosystem
        - [kyle]: this library – it's being used in cargocomponent, wit cli – it'd be nice to use cargo component with your private registry
        - [calvin]: to clarify: should we head down this path first? prototype plugins?
        - [kyle]: I brought up http proxy is to use it as an experiment – if you can do this, there's not a lot of design work. that might be something that's ready to prototype now, or now-ish
        - [calvin]: a signing service, e.g., would need to make outbound requests
        - [kyle]: can we make outbound requests from http-proxy?
            - [luke]: at the moment only to one backend. as part of resourcification, different backends might be handled via resource handles
            - [kyle]: so we're not quite there yet
            - [luke]: you can send it to multiple origins, though
        - [lann]: you probably want your auth client to be more than an http proxy – needs to do more
            - [kyle]: you want a key store locally?
            - [luke]: could be a WIT world? this starts to tip-toe into the cloud-core world?
            - (discussion of using a filesystem for storage; wasi-virt unlocks a lot here)
        - [lann]: stepping back: to answer calvin's question: it depends on timeframe. if it's something that you want to impl in the next month, then probably not. in the next few months, then "maybe". I'd be interested in working on it in the next few months, but not the next month
        - [kyle]: goal would be that the reference client can do all of these things
        - [lann]: alternative is "you do it in your own thing"
        - [calvin]: prefer to make the warg cli we're all developing "the thing"
            - [lann]: the signing helpers in particular, I'd be hesitant to accept a patch to the cli tool that wasn't really isolated and carefully designed
            - [calvin]: if that was impld as the proxy thing we were just talking about – intercepting the outbound before it actually goes out, in this plugin model
                - it would have to take that json body that doesn't have the signature
            - [kyle]: this is just the auth helper. authn is just "grab a token ahead of sending the request out"
            - [kyle]: we'll probably end up multiple kinds of plugins ultimately. multiple worlds – if we have interfaces for all of these things their implementation can be really flexible
            - [lann]: strategically: this could make warg an appealing test bed for things. it might encourage other people to participate who may not care about registries
            - [kyle]: dogfooding, essentially
- [calvin]: would like to make progress on monitoring and federation proposals
    - [kyle]: carve out the simple base
        - hesitant to add client support without the ability to write an integration test that proves it works
        - maybe for 0.2.1?
    - [calvin]: other thing worth noting: I'm trying to make it really easy to configure a mirror of something else – taking the preview registry and mirror it into our impl. If we wanted something that could scale better, say.
        - problem is, without some of these other apis, I need to use the debug endpoints to get the list of packages
        - there's no other way to recreate the ledger
