## Sep 20, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Kyle Brown, Lann Martin, Timmy Silesmo, Brian Hardock, Danny Macovei, Luke Wagner, Peter Huene, Chris Dickinson, Brian Hardock
| Note Taker | 

- Updates:
  - [Danny] Working on depsolving local packages. Simple deduping of resolved versions, only if versions match after resolving individually. More work on impl imports.
  - [Chris] Starting to on-board working on delegated auth.
- [Luke] PR proposing how to embed WIT in components
- [Danny] 0.2 messaging
    - jco integration?
- [Lann] Update on key management
- [Kyle] Getting component types from the registry
