## June 7, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Robin Brown, Calvin Prewitt, Peter Huene, Timmy Silesmo, Danny Macovei, Luke Wagner, David Justice, Lann Martin
| Note Taker | 

* Updates:
    * Calvin: A rename/refactor PR up that will hopefully be merged soon. Working on an explainer dock for the registry that he'll share for feedback soon. Investigating options for the replication protocol, hoping to talk about it more today.
    * Peter: Put up a PR to allow restricting the keys that can publish to the registry. This will let us limit who can publish to the registry and will let us run something public
    * Timmy: Working on a PR for metadata that should be up soon.
    * Danny: Sparse Merkle tree optimization stuff should be ready for review. Going to look into making names of packages something you can get from an endpoint.
* [Calvin] - Replication. [Discusion thread](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/discussions/127)
* Action Items:
    * ...
