## Jun 14, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Timmy Silesmo, Calvin Prewitt, Peter Huene, Danny Macovei
| Note Taker | 

* Updates:
    * Timmy: PR for registry metadata, do we want to put it into the wasm-tools repo or somewhere else? https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools/pull/1060
    * Peter: PR up to fix an issue in the dogfood instance where it was serving contents with the locally bound address. With this PR and a hotfix that calvin applied, it's now serving up content. Made a tool that lets users create WIT packages and upload them to a registry without using cargo component called [wit](https://github.com/peterhuene/wit).
    * Calvin: Looking 
* [Calvin] - Replication
    * Calvin: I'm concerned that things will get out of sync if we have forks that add other APIs. The reference implmentation is incomplete and needs.
* [Calvin] - Access Controls
* [Timmy] - Metadata Encoder/Decoder Location
* Action Items:
    * ...
