## May 24, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Robin Brown, Calvin Prewitt, Danny Macovei, Timmy Silesmo, Lukas Sandholm Duberg 
| Note Taker | 

* Updates:
    * Peter: Merged API refactor PR. Registry no longer allows arbitrary file uploads and lets you stream retrieving package logs. Added the ability to asynchronously publishing. V1 is added to the API routes on client/server. Planning to rebase the policy work onto this (e.g. to limit publish to valid Wasm components). We'll have policies around namespaces and who can publish to them. Then we'll be at a place to stand up a dogfood server that can handle WASI.
* [Robin] - Package types
* [Robin] - Namespaces
    * https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/discussions/119
* Action Items:
    * ...
