## Jul 5, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Lann Martin, Timmy Silesmo, Kyle Brown, Danny Macovei, Lukas Duberg, Peter Huene, Calvin Prewitt, Brian Hardock, Andreas Soderberg |
| Note Taker | Kyle Brown |

* Update
    * Lann: I just pushed a PR to add yank support to the warg cli. I added a fix to allow you to specify a signature key as a file. Turns out keyring doesn't work on headless linux which means we need to support this for CI.
    * Timmy: Merged the registry metadata into Wasm-tools
    * Danny: The sparse merkle tree has been merged. I've also been looking into the wit tooling repo and potentially expanding it. Looking into how to specify a dependency from the dependency and how to handle this transitively in builds. Luke said that an implementaiton import needs to be added to the AST.
    * Peter: I've been out for a few weeks and am catching up on things.
    * Calvin: I'd like to talk later about replication and monitors.
    * Lann: I removed protoc as a dependency for building warg using protox which is a pure-rust
* [Kyle] - Co-Chair Selection
    * Lann Martin and Calvin Prewitt nominated themselves for co-chair
    * There were no other nominees and they are now officially co-chairs of SIG-Registries
* [Lann] - Public v0 scope proposal
  * The "warg isn't vaporware" release
  * Focus on distribution of WASI artifacts:
      * preview2 world + adapter
      * WIP world snapshots (wasi-http, cloud core, etc)
  * Read-only to the public (manual ACL & key management)
  * Basic client transparency verification (no monitors)
  * Content upload out of band (e.g. Github)
  * Two clients:
      * cargo-component
      * warg-cli (download and publish)
* [Calvin] - Question about the hash encoding as strings vs bytes, while things are not locked
    * Calvin: I'm curious what the decisions/tradeoffs were with storing the hashes as strings instead of byte slices in the protobufs. It looks like the encoding algorithm...
    * Lann: Hashes are stored as a string formatted with the algorithm followed by a colon followed by base-16 encoded data.
    * ...
    * Calvin: Does anyone feel strongly about this either way?
    * ...
    * Kyle: 
* [Calvin] - Replication protocol and Monitors
    * Calvin: Let's talk about the scope of replication. I know we need to solve the problem for monitors. I've been looking into what problems monitors solve and what they need to validate. My understanding is that monitors need to validate things that clients generally can't without consuming a lot of information and that the primary thing they need to validate is that for every checkpoint the log and map are consistent with each other. 
* [Calvin] - Enumerate packages / querying
* Action Items
    * Kyle - update co-chair statuseso
    * Lann - investigate v0 hosting
    * Calvin - post issue for changing hash encoding


