## Oct 11, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Lann Martin, Kyle Brown, Danny Macovei, Chris Dickinson
| Note Taker | Chris Dickinson

Updates:
  - [Calvin] Working on a PR that includes Federation implementation;
  - [Danny] PR forthcoming on extracting registry metadata and interface import/exports from uploaded Wasm binaries;

Agenda:
- [Calvin] Discuss Federation implementation;
    - [calvin] indicating agreement on proxy – send an http header containing destination registry to home registry, then the home registry will proxy to destination if possible
      - this gives us mirroring/localizing another registry functionality
  - [kyle] pause to discuss
      - header doesn't necessarily imply proxying – "answer as if you were so-and-so, but you aren't required to proxy" - home registry can cache
      - several cases where you want to be a full mirror, including creating proofs for them
      - I've been calling them "subject headers" -- "I want you to answer this question about `<subject>`"
      - to abstract over "proxy" and "cache"
  - [calvin]: sounds like we have agreement, but we may need to change the name
      - [kyle]: just want to shift the mental model from "proxying" to "replication"
  - [kyle]: want to talk about monitoring – I give you a checkpoint and you tell me if this checkpoint is valid _to you_
      - the other endpoint is the endpoint you need to reconstruct your logs [cd, I missed some of this]
  - [lann]: talk about the verify endpoint: does this add something to a consistency proof about the latest checkpoint?
      - [kyle] no, your'e expected to have done consistency checks yourself; in the event of a fork attack, are you part of the valid linear history?
          - ... we're not a blockchain, but we want the monitors to all agree that we _all_ saw something
    - [lann] this starts to get into semantics – we're talking about two separate things – protocol and reference implementation
        - the naming of those things could be different
        - at the protocol level we're determining what it means to serve another subject's data; this validation endpoint implies a certain kind of thing you're doing with this other endpoint
    - [kyle] I'm going to ask you for the latest checkpoint subject:wasi, and then I'm going to ask wasi if this is the latest checkpoint – I can verify that you two agree about the checkpoint
    - [lann] wouldn't you want to do a consistency check in that endpoint anyway?
    - [kyle] you can ask your home registry for the wasi checkpoint, then double-check with wasi that the checkpoint is valid
    - [lann] original proposal had us re-signing checkpoints, is that still part of this?
    - [calvin] (shakes head no)
    - [kyle] no need for that in this model
    - [lann] we may be talking about two separate apis: one proxy that doesn't validate, and one that does
    - [kyle] monitor api should verify log/map consistency and this checkpoint is part of my history [cd check this]
        - it's possible most registries should implement monitoring endpoints ("I can tell you if checkpoints are legit")
    - [kyle] re-signing checkpoints: before we did that change, reiterate over the checkpoints and store that data – would love to have an iterator over all checkpoints ever taken
    - [lann] i think what I (or someone) is a split between checkpoints and signed checkpoints. Signed checkpoints are created periodically and unsigned checkpoints are created [tktk I missed this]
    - [kyle] in addition to what calvin suggested about iterating over log id/checkpoint id, iterate over the history
    - [calvin] raises questions about forgetting about checkpoints
        - they're not continuous, you want to be able to forget about old ones
    - [lann] logically they all exist and are immutable
    - [kyle] I'd like to keep them for auditing reasons; I can't make a checkpoint and show it to you without committing to it
    - [lann] that's what signed checkpoints are for
    - [kyle] we may want to make it so you can't be privately given a signed checkpoint that no one else every sees
    - [calvin] if we made a log of checkpoints, is that something folks would want?
    - [kyle] you could [have a client] that recomputes checkpoints and verifies that log
    - [lann] part of my argument against this is that they are hard to impl in current codebase; or sometimes is difficult to impl
    - [kyle] what's hard about inserting into a table
    - [lann] as soon as you change the schema, it gets difficult. should be easy, but isn't
        - want to make sure that changes at this level are motivated for user reasons, not nice-to-have
    - [kyle] if you're a monitor, one candidate impl is to read the log and compute your own table of checkpoints
    - [lann] agree to most of this, but need to know *when* the checkpoint was taken
    - [calvin] clarifying that lann means loglength, not time
    - [kyle] I am also talking about loglength
    - [lann] agreed that this is nice, but not necessary
    - [kyle] should monitors precompute all of the integer locations where a checkpoint might've been taken?
    - [lann] assumes you need to serve /verify this checkpoint in a particular way
    - [kyle] proposes rewinding up the stack
    - [calvin] what is the value of old checkpoints?
      - nobody will be asking for old checkpoints
    - [lann] you can validate once iteratively over the entire log, you don't have to go back
    - [kyle] but are all of the maps we handed out to people or did we hand out an invalid map?
        - we want to make checkpoints public – no way to create one in a vacuum. if a registry lied about it then clients could notice
        - you can do a diff between whole maps
    - [lann] is it cheaper to store every checkpoint or every record?
    - [kyle] which part are we trying to solve? "how to impl", or "does this have a motive"
    - [calvin]: client would call this endpoint to validate [cd check me on this]
    - [lann] time check; I understand the purpose, but I don't have enough of this swapped in to discuss this synchronously; GH discussion or issue?
    - [calvin] I'll start a topic around verify registry checkpoint and verifications for implementation – what we need to store
    - [lann] rewinding back; you can ask any question about a registry that you're not – some pushback on being domain-based URIs tied a specific host – nice in that the subject doesn't tie in the domain [cd: tweak this please!]
    - [calvin] should the header be a valid domain or any string?
        - currently goes through the registry config validation
        - normalizes to domains (`example.com` -> `https://example.com/`)
    - [lann] tangential thought: anytime asking a server to talk to another server raises security issues immediately
        - allow list on the registry for valid peers
        - federation: endpoint to verify that a thing wants to talk to you (`.well-known/<something>`)
    - [kyle] I think we're in the peering list
    - [calvin] may be worth moving to the next subject...
        - implementation of the mapping
        - not yet doing anything on the server – it's a way of configuring the client
            - so you know which namespace maps to which registry
        - it could talk to the home registry via `subject:` or talk directly to the destination registry
        - [kyle] one challenge that came up – the mapping could change project to project – should maybe a lockfile in your registry or a tiered search (a la pyenv/node_modules)
        - [lann] `.warg.toml`, say
        - [kyle] going to want to start tackling local configuration
        - [calvin] kyle and I were talking about this earlier today; I need to think about this a little bit more; which config should be global and which should be local? still think it would be nice to have a server endpoint to clarify mappings
        - [lann] still fundamental complexity we haven't figured out what happens when a package in another registry maps a namespace differently than your client [cd check me here, please]
        - _CD rephrase/edit: are client mappings transitive?_
        - [calvin] skip thinking about aliasing for now; only think about resolving things in the source context where a package is actually published
        - [lann] so namespace would only apply to root registry
        - 

- [Kyle & Calvin] Global vs project config / lock files for registry checkpoints and mappings;
