## Oct 4, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Kyle Brown, Chris Dickinson, Danny Macovei,  Kairo de Araujo |
| Note Taker | 

Updates:
  - [Calvin] Working on a proposal and use cases doc for Federation; Have a branch implementing federation;
  - [Danny] Working on a basic UI for the Reference Implementation server;

Agenda:
- [Kyle & Calvin] Communicating about v0.2 release commitments; Can we assert the protocol may have breaking changes but that tooling shouldn't "break" and disrupt usage? Registry services and clients will be designed to handle that transition gracefully to limit user disruption."
    - "The 0.2 release and subsequent 0.2.X releases will be compatible, stable, and maintained throughout the lifetime of preview 2. A future 0.3 and eventually 1.0 release may incorporate breaking changes to the protocol. Registry services and clients will be designed to handle that transition gracefully to limit user disruption."
    - Chris: We should make sure that people understand what "lifetime of preview 2" means
    - Some discussion about how to announce 0.2, who the audience for that is, etc.
        - [CD edit]: Looking for "what goal do we have for the audience of this communication"
- [Calvin] Federation and Use Cases
    - For mapping namespaces to the source registry, should that mapping be configured client-side in the CLI or on a registry?
    - How do you handle namespace conflicts?
- [Kairo] The Update Framework (TUF) general questions and introduce Repository Service for TUF (RSTUF)
