## Jun 28, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Danny Macovei, Brian Hardock, Lann Martin, Kyle Brown |
| Note Taker |  |

* Updates:
    * Calvin: Timmy's Wasm Tools PR for Registry Metadata is almost ready for review;
    * Lann: working on a PR to avoid needing to build `protoc` by using `protox` crate;
    * Danny: Recent work building on Peter's `wit` repo to enable transitive dependency resolution;
    * Calvin: Working on a PR to separate out the "transparency" service (which might need a rename) so that you can have read only replicas; Also, including a DuckDB DataStore implementation and using Parquet files for replication;
    * Danny: Sparse Merkle Tree PR;
* [Calvin] - Distributed Systems; Serializing/Deserializing so we don't need to read back the entire log for initializing on startup;
* Action Items:
    * ...
