## Jul 26, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Timmy Silesmo, Calvin Prewitt, Luke Wagner, Danny Macovei, Guy Bedford, Lann Martin, Brian Hardock, David Justice, Peter Huene
| Note Taker | 

- [Lann] Design update discussions:
  - Add timestamp to signed checkpoints; regenerate periodically
    - Agreed
  - Rename one of the "log" concepts, e.g. "Registry Ledger", "Package Journal", etc.
    - [Lann] to move to a GH discussion
  - Change hash (and key?) string encodings to align with impl imports proposal (e.g. `sha256-<base64>`)
    - Punted; no change for now
 - [Calvin] Discuss conventions for using registry-related APIs that are not in the Warg spec;
     - Should they be available on the same domain name under a different URL prefix to not collide with Warg APIs? 
     - Should a UI be available on the domain name used for a Warg registry? Or be deployed somewhere else?
- [Justice / James Sturtevant] Demo OCI content store and integration with containerd / Wasm shims
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SEwBcEFgXUM 
